To choose the right
number of iterations or number
of epochs for our
training step, the metric
we should have our eyes on
is the validation error.
The intuitive manual way
is to have the model train
for as many epochs
or iterations that it
takes, as long as the validation
error keeps decreasing.
Luckily, however, we can use a
technique called early stopping
to determine when to
stop training a model.
Early stopping roughly works
by monitoring the validation
error, and stopping the training
when it stops decreasing.
We must be a little flexible
though in defining the stopping
trigger.
Validation error will
often move back and forth,
even if it's on
a downward trend.
So instead of
stopping the training
the first time we see the
validation error increase,
we can instead stop the training
if the validation error has not
improved in the
last 10 or 20 steps.
TensorFlow has support
for early stopping.
Check the text below
the video for how
to implement it in TensorFlow.